# University-of-Illinois-Urbana-Champaign_Programming-Exercise

This is a Python program that manages and analyzes training completion data. It provides functionality to count completed training, list people who completed specified training in a given fiscal year, and identify expiring or expired training.

## Features

 - Reads all data from training.json file (use the attached file trainings.txt).

 ## Generate output as JSON in the three following ways:
 - List each completed training with a count of how many people have completed that training.
 - Given a list of trainings and a fiscal year (defined as 7/1/n-1 – 6/30/n), for each specified training, list all people that completed that training in the specified fiscal year.
   Use parameters: Trainings = "Electrical Safety for Labs", "X-Ray Safety", "Laboratory Safety Training"; Fiscal Year = 2024
 - Given a date, find all people that have any completed trainings that have already expired, or will expire within one month of the specified date (A training is considered expired the day after its expiration date). For each person found, list each completed training 
   that met the previous criteria, with an additional field to indicate expired vs expires soon.
   Use date: Oct 1st, 2023

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.6 or later

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/NIrajan-15/University-of-Illinois-Urbana-Champaign_Programming-Exercise.git

### Navigate to the Project Directory
 - cd your_project_directory

### Run the Program
 - python main.py

# Reports

Reports generated by the program can be found in the `output` directory.

## Training Count Report
- **File**: Training Completion Count.json
- **Description**: Lists each completed training along with a count of how many people have completed that training.

## Fiscal Year Training Report
- **File**: Completed Training by Fiscal Year 2024.json
- **Description**: Lists all people who completed each specified training in the specified fiscal year.
- **Trainings**:
 - "Electrical Safety for Labs"
 - "X-Ray Safety"
 - "Laboratory Safety Training"
- **Fiscal Year**: 2024

## Expired Trainings Report
- **File**: Expired or Expiring trainings.json
- **Description**: Finds people with expired or expiring soon training based on a specified date.
- **Date**: Oct 1st, 2023

